---
id: 1665766374543
collectionId: 0
isPublished: true
isFeatured: true
collectionPosition: 2
featuredPosition: {
    navbar: 0,
    homePage: 0,
    postsPage: 0,
    collectionPage: 2,
}
membershipStatus: member
author: Alen Juranko
category: Mathematics
title: 9 New article that dwels deep into mathematics
summary: Since the application is self-contained, and uses a datastore instead of a database, there is no need for environment preparation or data migrations. This title has nothing to do with technology and is used as a litmus test and is focused on Statistics. instead of a database, there is no need for environment preparation or data migrations. How to use NodeJS to build a flat-file datastore that resembles MongoDB or CouchDB.
tags: ["Tag one", "Tag one"]
createdAt: "2022-09-05"
updatedAt: "2022-09-05"
---

## Problem Statement
To build a REST interface to a simple lottery system.

### Lottery Rules
You have a series of lines on a ticket with 3 numbers, each of which has a value of 0, 1, or 2.
For each ticket if the sum of the values on a line is 2, the result for that line is 10.
Otherwise if they are all the same, the result is 5.
Otherwise so long as both 2nd and 3rd numbers are different from the 1st, the result is 1.
Otherwise the result is 0.

### Implementation
Implement a REST interface to generate a ticket with n lines.
Additionally we will need to have the ability to check the status of lines on a ticket.
We would like the lines sorted into outcomes before being returned.
It should be possible for a ticket to be amended with n additional lines.
Once the status of a ticket has been checked it should not be possible to amend.
We would like tested, clean code to be returned.

## Solution
I have used NodeJS and Express paired with a key-value datastore to build a simple API interface.
Datastore was designed from the ground up, and it is used as a primary data storage mechanism for API calls.
For tests, I have used Mocha paired with Chai and SuperTest.

Since the application is self-contained, and uses a datastore instead of a database, there is no need for environment preparation or data migrations.
All relevant dependencies are contained in the `package.json` file.

The [Datastore](src/api/datastore/repository/repository.engine.js) engine was written to mimic (as closely as possible) a document-oriented architecture that is used in NoSQL databases like MongoDB or CouchDB. All the data within the datastore is stored in `JSON` format (uncompressed).

To access and communicate with the datastore, I have decided to implement a repository approach. Since this application has only one type of data (`tickets data`), only one repository was created - the tickets repository. But the datastore can easily be expanded by adding new repositories and extending the current (engine) functionality.

Data stored on a document level looks like this:

```JSON
[
  {
    "id": "5ffc6e583bb7",
    "name": "First Ticket",
    "rows": [
      {
        "one": 0,
        "two": 1,
        "three": 1,
        "score": 10,
        "createdAt": 1634483792361
      },
      {
        "one": 0,
        "two": 1,
        "three": 2,
        "score": 2,
        "createdAt": 1634483792361
      },
      {
        "one": 1,
        "two": 1,
        "three": 2,
        "score": 0,
        "createdAt": 1634483792361
      }
    ],
    "isChecked": false,
    "createdAt": "2021-10-17 16:16:32",
    "lastUpdated": "2021-10-17 16:16:32",
  }
]
```

The tests can be found in this [directory](src/tests).

### Architecture
Architecture that was implemented was MVC (model, view, controller). But in this case, no view layer exists. All interactions are done via API calls.

### Installing dependencies
To install all dependencies required to run the application, type in your terminal:
```shell script
$ npm install
```

* **IMPORTANT!** This will **only** work if you have `node` and `npm` already installed on your local machine.
* If you need to install `node`, click [here](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) and follow the instructions. Node will automatically install `npm` for you.

### Running server
To run the server in development mode, type in your terminal:
```shell
$ npm run dev
```

To run the server in production mode, type in your terminal:
```shell
$ npm run prod
```

* production mode removes all error stacks traces. It cleans up all response objects.

The server can be accessed at port 3000.

### Running tests
To run tests, type in your terminal:
```shell
$ npm run test
```
The tests are run on a separate Datastore called `tickets.test.json`, located [here](src/api/datastore/data/tickets.test.json). Tests follow a transactional pattern where a rollback is performed at the end of each test.

The tests can be found at:

* [routes.test.js](src/tests/routes.test.js): Unit tests for all [routes](src/api/routes/index.js) and [controllers](src/api/controllers/controller.tickets.js)

### APIs
The API information(request/response format) can be found here: [API Doc](docs/API.md).